=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item March 14, 2003 (Pi day)

=over 2

=item *

Created version 1.0 of this document.

=back

=item May 8, 2003

=over 2

=item *

Added the L</"dynamic_config"> field, which was missing from the initial
version.

=back

=item November 13, 2003

=over 2

=item *

Added more YAML rationale articles.

=item *

Fixed existing link to YAML discussion thread to point to new
L<http://nntp.x.perl.org/group/> site.

=item *

Added and deprecated the L<"private"> field.

=item *

Added L<"abstract">, L<"configure">, L<"requires_packages">,
L<"requires_os">, L<"excludes_os">, and L<"no_index"> fields.

=item *

Bumped version.

=back

=item November 16, 2003

=over 2

=item *

Added L<"generation">, L<"authored_by"> fields.

=item *

Add alternative proposal to the L<"recommends"> field.

=item *

Add proposal for a L<"requires_build_tools"> field.

=back

=item December 9, 2003

=over 2

=item *

Added link to latest version of this specification on CPAN.

=item *

Added section L<"VERSION SPECIFICATIONS">.

=item *

Chang name from Module::Build::META-spec to CPAN::META::Specification.

=item *

Add proposal for L<"auto_regenerate"> field.

=back

=item December 15, 2003

=over 2

=item *

Add L<"index"> field as a compliment to L<"no_index">

=item *

Add L<"keywords"> field as a means to aid searching distributions.

=item *

Add L<"TERMINOLOGY"> section to explain certain terms that may be
ambiguous.

=back

=item July 26, 2005

=over 2

=item *

Removed a bunch of items (generation, requires_build_tools,
requires_packages, configure, requires_os, excludes_os,
auto_regenerate) that have never actually been supported, but were
more like records of brainstorming.

=item *

Changed C<authored_by> to C<author>, since that's always been what
it's actually called in actual F<META.yml> files.

=item *

Added the "==" operator to the list of supported version-checking
operators.

=item *

Noted that the C<distribution_type> field is basically meaningless,
and shouldn't really be used.

=item *

Clarified C<dynamic_config> a bit.

=item *

Version 1.2 published

=back

=item August 23, 2005

=over 2

=item *

Removed the name C<CPAN::META::Specification>, since that implies a
module that doesn't actually exist.

=back

=item October 14, 2006

=over 2

=item *

'dir' was renamed to 'directory'.

=back

=item November 5, 2006

=over 2

=item *

Version 1.3 published

=back

=item June 12, 2007

=over 2

=item *

Added C<configure_requires>.

=back

=item June 25, 2008

=over 2

=item *

Version 1.4 published

=back

=back

